# Fatigue-Detection-using-Automated-Deep-Learning-Techniques

ABSTRACT

In the human race, Fatigue may contribute to a decline in efficiency. Fatigue is a risk factor for health as well as a component of quality degradation. The effects of fatigue include sleep disorders, depression, and worry, all of which can lead to life-threatening issues. This project uses machine learning and deep learning techniques to identify a person’s degree of fatigue as well as its effects. The developed deep learning network can accurately distinguish between normal and exhausted states. This detection device makes use of physiological characteristics to guarantee high detection rates and accuracy. The project aims to recognize fatigue levels by examining the features extracted from the batch of images and classifying them into their respective class labels such as, Alert, Non-Vigilant, and Fatigued. To implement the detection procedures using deep structured learning that will yield very accurate image recognition and classification results. A large-scale image dataset is being transported through efficient algorithm strategies and is processed to transform the data by labeling the patterns, tracking the correlations, and producing supreme results. By employing the pre-trained models of the Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN), convolving through the hidden layers, applying the filters, and sharing the weights, the images will be diagnosed. Alex Net, Resnet50, and MobilenetV2 are the potential classifiers that will expand, filter, train, compress, and test through the neurons of the subjects. The layers and the non-linear functionalities are designed in the wake of the structured embedding of the model in order to deliver efficient metrics. The proposal offers the best accuracy for the established MobilenetV2 model with 99.8% accuracy and validates it with high-performance results.
